##### Citation:

Understanding the complexity of project team member selection through agent-based modeling. (2015, October 20). Retrieved October 24, 2017, from http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0263786315001507#bb0160

##### Summary:
This paper examines the use of agent base models in the realm of long-term teaming, (i.e. project teams lasting between projects).
Models in the past have assumed the successfullness of teams based on the net sum of the abilities within the team, so 
switching memebers of two teams will not substantially affect the total productivity of both team. But, reality is not so simple
and even cummulatively low ability teams can outperform their higher ability conterparts given the right scenario. The paper introduces a couple major factors to be taken into account by the agent based modeled, namely the availability, salary, expertise, education, and most importantly the inderdependability of each agent. Previous models often exclude the final factor which dictates how much a worker relies on his or her coworkers  and vice versa. The model additionally outlines common criteria for success i.e. the cost to complete a project, the quality of a product, and time taken to complete a product. Their model combines all these input and output factors into one model that examines the overall profit of a firm across different economic conditions while varying the style of team formation between homogeneous(workers with similar expertise, experience, and education background), heterogeneous(different expertise, experience, and education background), and Interdependence-based selection (pairing groups based on how much experience they have with each other). They found that for moderate to good economic scenarios, the interdependence based pairing performed significantly better than the heterogeneuous which performed better than the homogeneuous pairings. They validated their model by comparing its inputs and results with the profit of the Yi-Hsin design firm and finds a close correspondance. 
